Physical Information

Gender = Male
Height = 1.72 m
Weight = 65 kg
Blood group = A+

Hobbies and interest

Drawing
Playing video games
History
Geopolitics

Academic Information

Nursery - KGII       = St.Xavier Secondary School, Shillong
Class 1 - Class 3    = Ruprekha Secondary School, Shilllong
Class 5 - Class 10   = ElSwer School, Shillong
Class 11 - Class 12  = St. John's Higher Secondary School, Shillong
BCA                  = Annex College of Management Studies, Kolkata

Achievements and Awards

1st place in one legged race during KG-I sports week

Side pojects

Learn Python and Lua Programming language

Favourite Books

Contact information

Facebook, Linkdin, Gitlab

1. 1984 describes a Utopia. Not Thomas More's version of Utopia, but this is one is the antithesis, i.e. Dystopia. Imagine living in a country, whose leaders apply a totalitarian system in regulating their citizen, in the most extreme ways, which make Hitler, Mao, Stalin and that old bloke in V for Vendetta look like sissies.

Working, eating, drinking, sleeping, talking, thinking, procreating...in short living, all are controlled by the state. Any hint of obedience or dislike can be detected by various state apparatus such as the Thought Police, telescreen, or even your children, who will not hesitate to betray you to the authorities. Even language is modified in such ways that you cannot express yourself, since individualism is a crime.

The past is controlled, rewritten into something that will strengthen the incumbent ruler. Who controls the past, controls the future. Who controls the present, controls the past. There is no real truth. The "truth" is what the state says it is. Black is white, 2+2=5, if the state says so.

The world in 1984 is divided into three states, originated from the ashes from World War II: Oceania (British Isles, the Americas, Pacific, Australia), Eurasia (Europe & Russia), and Eastasia (the rest of it). Continuous warfare between those three (who hold similar ideologies) is required to keep the society's order and peace. Si vis pacem para bellum. That's describes the first slogan.

The second slogan, freedom is slavery, means the only way to be free is by letting you lose yourself and to be integrated within the Party. That way, you'll be indestructible and immortal.

Ignorance is strength, means the division on high, middle, low classes in society will never be changed. The middle wants to be the high and they'll act "on behalf of the low" to dethrone the high. Afterwards, a new middle class arises, all will change except the low. The high and middle make and uphold the law, the low (proletarian) is just too stupid to revolt. The state maintains its structure by torture, intimidation, violence, and brainwashing.

Blimey, Orwell's Animal Farm is already depressing, but 1984 gives "depression" a new meaning, at least for me. 

2.In the start, I thought this book would be from the view point of animals; about how they are treated, how they expect to be treated and how man is cruel towards them.
But but but;
I am amazed at how Orwell criticizes the political maneuvers and totalitarian rule, using animals to explain what humans do. The author beautifully portrays the way a revolution is started to stop what is happening and going full circle comes to the same point it started from. Just the face of power is changed.
This book tells how the ruling class makes fool of the working class, uses their energies and resources for their own pleasure. What happens behind the closed doors of power.
How the working class is being brain washed that they are happy and satisfied and free despite of the obvious slavery they have been undergoing.
My favorite character was Benjamin (yes, a donkey) , who remains a neutral throughout and says nothing despite understanding everything.
A huge applause to Orwell for being able to explain human psyche, political and social dilemma wrapped in the form of this story. 

3.This is an excellent translation of a most compelling book, the autobiography of the founder of the Moghul empire. If you ever wondered how feudalism actually works, this is the book for you. Far from leading a life soley devoted to luxury and dancing girls, Babur is busy keeping his retinue in line and ensuring that the various challenges to his power are properly responded to.
The book is disarmingly honest, reporting drinking parties and drug taking as well as battles and disloyalty by those sworn to fealty.
